Good morning, and thank you for inviting me to speak here today.
As you can see from the title of my talk, I will be telling you about the surprising ubiquity of convex optimization.
But before I tell you what convex optimization is, and why I've found it so useful to my work, I wanted to reflect briefly on the prevalence of optimization in our everyday lives.
--Slide--
In fields ranging from robotics to material science to machine learning, computers are being used to optimize our decision making.
And this has enormously increased our capabilities in each of these areas.
And yet, despite how commonplace it is, there is still much we don't understand about the results of these optimization procedures.
--Slide--
When it comes to optimizing large scale models, we often are unable to reason about the outputs of our optimization procedures.
LLM hallucinations are perhaps the most topical example of this behavior
As an optimizer, I would like to develop optimization algorithms which are not just effective practically, but which we can also reason about and offer mathematical guarantees on their performance.
--Slide--
In my work, I have several goals in mind when developing algorithms. Naturally, computational efficiency is crucial for making useful algorithms, but also reliability in the sense of outputting answers which match the specifications which we give to the algorithm. We also want a language for specifying optimization problems which is expressive in the sense of being able to capture the kinds of questions we want to answer. One more thing which we might desire from our algorithms is global optimality, meaning that the output of the optimization algorithm cannot be improved upon. This is not always possible, or necessary, but when it is, it can be very powerful, as we will see in later in the talk.

Convex optimization is a field of study within optimization for which each of these goals is achievable.
--Slide--
c

When this is possible, we often say that the nonconvex optimization problem exhibits hidden convexity. As though there is some convex problem hiding just beneath the surface of the problem that we are studying.

Don't talk through the subbullet points, seems to get too complicated.
